Sharks have skin that protects them in a unique way.
Left unchecked, microorganisms would establish colonies on the shark's skin,
which in turn would attract larger parasites to latch onto the shark.
If that happened, the shark's health and ability to swim would suffer,
but the fact is that the shark's skin remains virtually free of parasites.
How? Shark's skin is covered in complex scales called dermal tentacles.
Though they look like tiny fish scales, they are built more like mammal teeth
with a smooth enamel surface.
This very smooth surface, together with a complex structure of tiny ridges,
makes it very hard for microscopic organisms to grab onto the shark's skin.
If one does latch on, those same ridges channel water to flow faster and wash off the hitchhiker.
So this single design element resists parasites in two different ways.
But that's not all.
The tentacles' unique shape creates small areas of suction all along the shark's body,
enhancing its ability to thrust itself forward as it swims.
These advantages allow sharks, like the short fin mako, to reach burst speeds of 74 kilometers per hour.
Scientists are engineering artificial surfaces that mimic shark skin,
to help boats and planes be more fuel efficient.
This nature-inspired technology could also prevent harmful germs from growing on hospital surfaces,
without having to use toxic disinfectants.
What do you think?
Did sharks can simply evolve?
Or was it designed?